zsub/work-env.md, before:

# Work-Env
[karabiner](./karabiner.json)
[.gitconfig](./gitconfig)

## Mac Setting
### .ssh 복사
iCloud/pooh/ssh.tar

#### xcode command/brew/zsh/iterm2/karabiner install
```
xcode-select —-install
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
brew install --cask iterm2 | brew install zsh | brew install karabiner-elements
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
```

### karanbiner/iterm2/git 및 기타 파일
- [karabiner](./karabiner.json)
- iterm2 - Preferences - Profiles - Silence bell
  - Settings - Profiles - Default - Colors - Color Preset: Tango Light
    - Minimum Contract: 33
- [.gitconfig](./gitconfig) 내용은 .gitconfig에 복사 & `git init`
- iCloud/pooh 폴더 복사해 놓기.
- brew install gh
- right command to 한영전환
  - karabinder에서 add rule, right command를 F19로 세팅
  - system setting에서 입력소스 단축키에 right command 입력하면 F19 입력됨.
  - 그리고, CapsLock으로 한영전환하는 것은 제거하기
- 키크론 스크린샷 키 비활성화
  - Under "System Settings" --> "Keyboard" --> "Keyboard Shortcuts" --> "Screenshots" --> "Cmd Shift 4", disable

### gpt shortcut
- gpt1: shift cmd x
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": show me corrected version for my english, and answer my message in detail"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- gpt2: shift cmd ,
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": create sentence with this text"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- gpt3: shift cmd '
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": translate into korean and explain in english"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- gpt4: shift cmd \
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": summarize this in brief"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- gpt5: shift cmd p
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": translate into english and answer in english"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- Settings -> 개인정보 보호 및 보안 -> 손쉬운 사용에서 허용으로 바꿔야 해당앱에서 단축키 사용가능

### Warp/GitKraken/Slack
https://www.gitkraken.com/
https://www.warp.dev/
[Slack on AppStore](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/slack-for-desktop/id803453959?mt=12&ls=1)

### awscli 설치 및 aws configure
[aws cli](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/AWSCLIV2.pkg)

```
$ aws configure
AWS Access Key ID: 맥 메모에 있음
AWS Secret Access Key : 맥 메모에 있음.
Default region name [None]: ap-northeast-2
Default output format [None]:
```

echo $SHELL로 쉘 확인하고 아래 .zshrc에 복사
```
`단축키` 부분으로 이동
```
.zshrc에 테마 찾아서 복사
```
ZSH_THEME="robbyrussell"
```

finder 열고 다음 실행하면 숨김 파일 보임
```
Command + Shift + .
```

### node version
이걸 해야 매번 nvm use 20을 안해도 됨
```
export PATH="/path/to/node-v20.19.0/bin:$PATH"
```

### gemini & codex
use nvm 20
brew install gemini
gemini

.zshrc 세팅
- OPENAI_API_KEY
- GEMINI_API_KEY

[gemini settings.json](./settings.json)

### chatgpt-cli
```
brew tap kardolus/chatgpt-cli && brew install chatgpt-cli
```
Set the OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable to your [ChatGPT secret key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys). To set the environment variable, you can add the following line to your shell profile (e.g., ~/.bashrc, ~/.zshrc, or ~/.bash_profile), replacing your_api_key with your actual key:
```
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your_api_key"
```

To enable history tracking across CLI calls
```
mkdir -p ~/.chatgpt-cli
```

To start interactive mode, use the -i or --interactive flag:
```
chatgpt --interactive
```

To use the pipe feature, create a text file containing some context.
Then, use the pipe feature to provide this context to ChatGPT:
```
cat context.txt | chatgpt "What kind of toy would Kya enjoy?"
```

And run this
```
chatgpt what is the capital of the Netherlands
```

List the models
```
chatgpt --list-models
```

Set a model
```
chatgpt --set-model o1-mini
```

### npm yarn docker install
```
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.1/install.sh | bash
npm install -g yarn
brew install cask docker
brew install cask docker-compose
```
### nvm install
> curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.34.0/install.sh | bash
source ~/.nvm/nvm.sh

https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/ 도커 Desktop (linked0/**)

### rust/postgresql install
> pip3 install git+https://github.com/elyase/ethers-py --break-system-packages


> curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
export PATH="$HOME/.cargo/bin:$PATH"
cargo install sqlx-cli

> brew update
brew install postgresql
brew services start postgresql

psql postgres <== 접속해볼 수 있음.

### MySql Server 설치
- https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/ 이동
- 버전에 맞게 ARM이나 X86 버전 설치 
- 예) macOS 14 (ARM, 64-bit), DMG Archive 이나 macOS 14 (x86, 64-bit), DMG Archive
- MySQL Workbench도 설치
- 초기화: 시스템 메뉴 -> 설정 -> 왼쪽 하단의 MySQL 클릭해서 들어가서 "Initialize Database" 클릭
- 암호는 alfred0!@

### Posgresql Server 설치
- pgadmin download(https://www.pgadmin.org/download/pgadmin-4-macos/)

### Whale, Miro, onenote, Visual Studio, Xcode, Github CLI, IDEA
- Whale extension: React Developer Tools
- Command Palette: [⇧⌘P ] Shell command
- Settings 열기: cmd + ,
- XCode: [Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/)
- FileMerge: open /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Applications/FileMerge.app
- brew install gh
- Idea 명령세팅: export PATH=$PATH:'/Applications/IntelliJ IDEA.app/Contents/MacOS'
- Idea Cyan Light Theme 설치

### ETC
- Postman Agent: 이거 쓰지 말고 curl쓰는 방식으로 그냥 ChatGPT에게 물어보면 됨.
- Whiteboard (AppStore에 있음)

### VS Code Plugin
- Solidity Visual Developer
- Solidity(JuanBlanco)
- Go/rust-analyzer
- Live Preview
- Github Copilot
- Markdown All in One
- Github actions
- Extension Pack for Java
- Prettier - Code formatter
- ES7+ React/Redux/React-Native
- vscode-pdf
- Cairo 1.0 (with r) & Cairo Syntax
- Solidity Visual Developer: audit tag를 위해서 사용될 수 있음, @audit-ok ⇐ 오딧 관련 코멘트
- Inline Bookmarks
- CodeRabbit
- Gemini Code Assist

### VS Code Setting
- 느린 스크롤 세팅: Settings 열기 - smoothScrolling 검색 - Smooth Scrolling 체크
- VS Code 세팅: Editor: Hover Enable을 Disable로 바꿔야 코드창에서 팝업 안뜸
- tabstob 바꾸기
  - Open settings(cmd + shift + p에서 "Open Settings" 입력) => Intent Size 검색
  - 맨 밑에서 "Edit in setting.json" 링크 클릭 
```
"[typescript]": {
        "editor.tabSize": 2,
        "editor.insertSpaces": true // true if you prefer spaces over tabs
    },
    "[solidity]": {
        "editor.tabSize": 2, // or the number you prefer for Solidity
        "editor.insertSpaces": true // true if you prefer spaces over tabs
    },
```
- terminal buffer 늘리기
  - cmd + shift + p => scrollback
  - 1000을 100000으로 늘려줌
- shortcut 수정
  - Toogle Panel Visibility: cmd ctrl j
  - Toggle Terminal : cmd j

### How to Show the .git Folder in VS Code
- Open VS Code Settings: Press (Cmd + ,) to open the Settings UI.
- Open Settings as JSON 📄: Type "files.exclude"
- Modify the files.exclude Setting 

### Automator action script
#### How
- Automator
  - "ActionScript 실행"
  - Add script and save
- Keyboard shortcut
  - Settings -> 키보드 -> 키보드 단축키 -> 서비스 -> 일반
- 보안 세팅
  - Settings -> 개인정보 보호 및 보안 -> 손쉬운 사용
    - automator, safari에 대해서 허용

#### gpt 1
shift cmd x
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": show me corrected version for my english, and answer my message in detail"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

#### gpt 2
shift cmd ,
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": create sentence with this text"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```
#### gpt 3
shift cmd '
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": translate into korean and explain in english"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```
#### gpt 4
shift cmd \
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": summarize this in brief"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```
#### gpt 5
shift cmd p
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": translate into english and answer in english"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

### hardhat & foundry
#### hardhat 
- npm install --global yarn 
- yarn global add hardhat 

#### foundry 
```shell
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
source /Users/jay/.zshenv
brew install libusb
brew link libusb
source ~/.zshrc
foundryup
forge --version
```

### 기타
- CAPS 키 지연 문제
```
hidutil property --set '{"CapsLockDelayOverride":10}'
```
- 🔥 memo.txt를 사용하기 보다는 그냥 스티커 앱 사용
- 맥 메인 모니터 설정 및 Dock 사이즈 조정
- 데스크탑 및 Dock: Mission Control - Spaces를 최근 사용내역에 따라 자동으로 재정렬
- 휴지통 컵
- .gitignore: broadcast 폴더 전부 제거할 때
```
/broadcast/*
```
- m.txt를 한번 띄우고, 다음에 cmd space로 찾기 쉽게 만들기.

😈 Calendar 추가(Dev Team)
😈 스타일가이드: https://github.com/bpfkorea/agora/blob/v0.x.x/doc/Style.md, 상세한 설명 필요

Commit message:

Document GPT shortcut setup in work-env.md

zsub/work-env.md, after:

# Work-Env
[karabiner](./karabiner.json)
[.gitconfig](./gitconfig)

## Mac Setting
### .ssh 복사
iCloud/pooh/ssh.tar

#### xcode command/brew/zsh/iterm2/karabiner install
```
xcode-select —-install
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
brew install --cask iterm2 | brew install zsh | brew install karabiner-elements
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
```

### karanbiner/iterm2/git 및 기타 파일
- [karabiner](./karabiner.json)
- iterm2 - Preferences - Profiles - Silence bell
  - Settings - Profiles - Default - Colors - Color Preset: Tango Light
    - Minimum Contract: 33
- [.gitconfig](./gitconfig) 내용은 .gitconfig에 복사 & `git init`
- iCloud/pooh 폴더 복사해 놓기.
- brew install gh
- right command to 한영전환
  - karabinder에서 add rule, right command를 F19로 세팅
  - system setting에서 입력소스 단축키에 right command 입력하면 F19 입력됨.
  - 그리고, CapsLock으로 한영전환하는 것은 제거하기
- 키크론 스크린샷 키 비활성화
  - Under "System Settings" --> "Keyboard" --> "Keyboard Shortcuts" --> "Screenshots" --> "Cmd Shift 4", disable

### gpt shortcut

#### 설정 방법
1. Create the Quick Action in Automator:
Open Automator (found in Applications/Utilities).
Choose File > New or press Command-N.
Select Quick Action as the document type and click Choose.
Configure the workflow as needed. For example, you can add a "Run AppleScript" action to execute a custom script.
Save the Quick Action by choosing File > Save and giving it a descriptive name.

3. Assign a Keyboard Shortcut:
Open System Settings (or System Preferences on older macOS versions).
Click on Keyboard in the sidebar.
Click on Keyboard Shortcuts (or Shortcuts on older macOS versions).
Select Services from the left-hand pane.
Locate your newly created Quick Action in the list (it will appear under the name you saved it as).
Click on the "Add Shortcut" button or double-click the "none" text next to your Quick Action.
Press your desired keyboard shortcut combination. Ensure it does not conflict with existing system or application shortcuts.

#### Apple Scripts
- gpt1: shift cmd x
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": show me corrected version for my english, and answer my message in detail"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- gpt2: shift cmd ,
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": create sentence with this text"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- gpt3: shift cmd '
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": translate into korean and explain in english"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- gpt4: shift cmd \
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": summarize this in brief"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- gpt5: shift cmd p
```
tell application "System Events"
  keystroke ": translate into english and answer in english"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

- Settings -> 개인정보 보호 및 보안 -> 손쉬운 사용에서 허용으로 바꿔야 해당앱에서 단축키 사용가능

### Warp/GitKraken/Slack
https://www.gitkraken.com/
https://www.warp.dev/
[Slack on AppStore](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/slack-for-desktop/id803453959?mt=12&ls=1)

### awscli 설치 및 aws configure
[aws cli](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/AWSCLIV2.pkg)

```
$ aws configure
AWS Access Key ID: 맥 메모에 있음
AWS Secret Access Key : 맥 메모에 있음.
Default region name [None]: ap-northeast-2
Default output format [None]:
```

echo $SHELL로 쉘 확인하고 아래 .zshrc에 복사
```
`단축키` 부분으로 이동
```
.zshrc에 테마 찾아서 복사
```
ZSH_THEME="robbyrussell"
```

finder 열고 다음 실행하면 숨김 파일 보임
```
Command + Shift + .
```

### node version
이걸 해야 매번 nvm use 20을 안해도 됨
```
export PATH="/path/to/node-v20.19.0/bin:$PATH"
```

### gemini & codex
use nvm 20
brew install gemini
gemini

.zshrc 세팅
- OPENAI_API_KEY
- GEMINI_API_KEY

[gemini settings.json](./settings.json)

### chatgpt-cli
```
brew tap kardolus/chatgpt-cli && brew install chatgpt-cli
```
Set the OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable to your [ChatGPT secret key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys). To set the environment variable, you can add the following line to your shell profile (e.g., ~/.bashrc, ~/.zshrc, or ~/.bash_profile), replacing your_api_key with your actual key:
```
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your_api_key"
```

To enable history tracking across CLI calls
```
mkdir -p ~/.chatgpt-cli
```

To start interactive mode, use the -i or --interactive flag:
```
chatgpt --interactive
```

To use the pipe feature, create a text file containing some context.
Then, use the pipe feature to provide this context to ChatGPT:
```
cat context.txt | chatgpt "What kind of toy would Kya enjoy?"
```

And run this
```
chatgpt what is the capital of the Netherlands
```

List the models
```
chatgpt --list-models
```

Set a model
```
chatgpt --set-model o1-mini
```

### npm yarn docker install
```
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.1/install.sh | bash
npm install -g yarn
brew install cask docker
brew install cask docker-compose
```
### nvm install
> curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.34.0/install.sh | bash
source ~/.nvm/nvm.sh

https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/ 도커 Desktop (linked0/**)

### rust/postgresql install
> pip3 install git+https://github.com/elyase/ethers-py --break-system-packages


> curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
export PATH="$HOME/.cargo/bin:$PATH"
cargo install sqlx-cli

> brew update
brew install postgresql
brew services start postgresql

psql postgres <== 접속해볼 수 있음.

### MySql Server 설치
- https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/ 이동
- 버전에 맞게 ARM이나 X86 버전 설치 
- 예) macOS 14 (ARM, 64-bit), DMG Archive 이나 macOS 14 (x86, 64-bit), DMG Archive
- MySQL Workbench도 설치
- 초기화: 시스템 메뉴 -> 설정 -> 왼쪽 하단의 MySQL 클릭해서 들어가서 "Initialize Database" 클릭
- 암호는 alfred0!@

### Posgresql Server 설치
- pgadmin download(https://www.pgadmin.org/download/pgadmin-4-macos/)

### Whale, Miro, onenote, Visual Studio, Xcode, Github CLI, IDEA
- Whale extension: React Developer Tools
- Command Palette: [⇧⌘P ] Shell command
- Settings 열기: cmd + ,
- XCode: [Apple Developer](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/)
- FileMerge: open /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Applications/FileMerge.app
- brew install gh
- Idea 명령세팅: export PATH=$PATH:'/Applications/IntelliJ IDEA.app/Contents/MacOS'
- Idea Cyan Light Theme 설치

### ETC
- Postman Agent: 이거 쓰지 말고 curl쓰는 방식으로 그냥 ChatGPT에게 물어보면 됨.
- Whiteboard (AppStore에 있음)

### VS Code Plugin
- Solidity Visual Developer
- Solidity(JuanBlanco)
- Go/rust-analyzer
- Live Preview
- Github Copilot
- Markdown All in One
- Github actions
- Extension Pack for Java
- Prettier - Code formatter
- ES7+ React/Redux/React-Native
- vscode-pdf
- Cairo 1.0 (with r) & Cairo Syntax
- Solidity Visual Developer: audit tag를 위해서 사용될 수 있음, @audit-ok ⇐ 오딧 관련 코멘트
- Inline Bookmarks
- CodeRabbit
- Gemini Code Assist

### VS Code Setting
- 느린 스크롤 세팅: Settings 열기 - smoothScrolling 검색 - Smooth Scrolling 체크
- VS Code 세팅: Editor: Hover Enable을 Disable로 바꿔야 코드창에서 팝업 안뜸
- tabstob 바꾸기
  - Open settings(cmd + shift + p에서 "Open Settings" 입력) => Intent Size 검색
  - 맨 밑에서 "Edit in setting.json" 링크 클릭 
```
"[typescript]": {
        "editor.tabSize": 2,
        "editor.insertSpaces": true // true if you prefer spaces over tabs
    },
    "[solidity]": {
        "editor.tabSize": 2, // or the number you prefer for Solidity
        "editor.insertSpaces": true // true if you prefer spaces over tabs
    },
```
- terminal buffer 늘리기
  - cmd + shift + p => scrollback
  - 1000을 100000으로 늘려줌
- shortcut 수정
  - Toogle Panel Visibility: cmd ctrl j
  - Toggle Terminal : cmd j

### How to Show the .git Folder in VS Code
- Open VS Code Settings: Press (Cmd + ,) to open the Settings UI.
- Open Settings as JSON 📄: Type "files.exclude"
- Modify the files.exclude Setting 

### Automator action script
#### How
- Automator
  - "ActionScript 실행"
  - Add script and save
- Keyboard shortcut
  - Settings -> 키보드 -> 키보드 단축키 -> 서비스 -> 일반
- 보안 세팅
  - Settings -> 개인정보 보호 및 보안 -> 손쉬운 사용
    - automator, safari에 대해서 허용

#### gpt 1
shift cmd x
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": show me corrected version for my english, and answer my message in detail"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

#### gpt 2
shift cmd ,
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": create sentence with this text"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```
#### gpt 3
shift cmd '
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": translate into korean and explain in english"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```
#### gpt 4
shift cmd \
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": summarize this in brief"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```
#### gpt 5
shift cmd p
```
tell application "System Events"
    keystroke ": translate into english and answer in english"
	key code 36 -- Presses "Enter" (Return key)
end tell
```

### hardhat & foundry
#### hardhat 
- npm install --global yarn 
- yarn global add hardhat 

#### foundry 
```shell
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
source /Users/jay/.zshenv
brew install libusb
brew link libusb
source ~/.zshrc
foundryup
forge --version
```

### 기타
- CAPS 키 지연 문제
```
hidutil property --set '{"CapsLockDelayOverride":10}'
```
- 🔥 memo.txt를 사용하기 보다는 그냥 스티커 앱 사용
- 맥 메인 모니터 설정 및 Dock 사이즈 조정
- 데스크탑 및 Dock: Mission Control - Spaces를 최근 사용내역에 따라 자동으로 재정렬
- 휴지통 컵
- .gitignore: broadcast 폴더 전부 제거할 때
```
/broadcast/*
```
- m.txt를 한번 띄우고, 다음에 cmd space로 찾기 쉽게 만들기.

😈 Calendar 추가(Dev Team)
😈 스타일가이드: https://github.com/bpfkorea/agora/blob/v0.x.x/doc/Style.md, 상세한 설명 필요
